Error default retention filter (#13692)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/trace_retention/_index.md

{{< img src="tracing/live_search_and_analytics/tracing_without_limits_lifecycle-3.png" style="width:100%; background:none; border:none; box-shadow:none;" alt="Trace Journey: Indexing" >}}

With APM, both the [ingestion][1] of traces as well as the **retention** of those traces for 15 days are fully customizable.

To track or monitor your volume of ingested and indexed data, see the [Usage Metrics][2] documentation.

## Retention filters

After spans have been ingested by Datadog, some are kept for 15 days according to the retention filters that have been set on your account.

By default, two retention filters are enabled for your account:

> - The `Error Default` retention filter indexes error spans with `status:error`. The retention rate and the query can be configured. For instance to only capture production errors, set the query to `status:error, env:production`. Disable the retention filter if you do not want to capture the errors by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `Error Default` retention filter indexes error spans with `status:error`. The retention rate and the query can be configured. For instance, to capture production errors, set the query to `status:error, env:production`. Disable the retention filter if you do not want to capture the errors by default.
```

- The [Intelligent Retention Filter](#datadog-intelligent-retention-filter) retains diverse error traces and traces from different latency distributions.

You can also create any number of additional [tag-based retention filters](#create-your-own-retention-filter) for your services.

**Note**: Admin rights are required to create, modify, or disable retention filters.

> {{< img src="tracing/trace_indexing_and_ingestion/retention_filters/retention_filter_page.png" style="width:100%;" alt="Retention Filters Page" >}}

Author: Done

In Datadog, on the [Retention Filters tab][3], you can see a list of all retention filters:

Filter Name

> : The name of each filter used to index spans. By default, the only filter is [Datadog Intelligent Retention Filter](#datadog-intelligent-retention-filter).

Author: yep you're correct, this one went under the radar, thanks

> : The name of each filter used to index spans. By default, the only filter is [Datadog Intelligent Retention Filter](#datadog-intelligent-retention-filter).

Author: ```suggestion
: The name of each filter used to index spans.
```

**Note**: Because intelligent retention chooses spans intentionally and not randomly, spans that are retained only by the intelligent filter are **not** included in the [Trace explorer timeseries view][6]. Aggregated views (timeseries, toplist, table) are available only for spans retained by [custom retention filters](#create-your-own-retention-filter).

Spans indexed by the intelligent retention filter are **not counted towards the usage** of indexed spans, and hence **do not impact your bill**.

> If there are specific tags, facets, or groups of traces that you want to investigate _in detail_, meaning you want to retain more than what Intelligent Retention retains, then [create your own retention filter](#create-your-own-retention-filter).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are specific tags, facets, or groups of traces of which you want to retain more traces than what Intelligent Retention retains, then [create your own retention filter](#create-your-own-retention-filter).
```
